Rework Authentication scheme, require SIWE, remove JWT (#17)
fiatconnect/specification: fiatconnect-api.md

  * [3.2. Authentication & Authorization](#32-authentication---authorization)
    + [3.2.1. Sign-In With Ethereum](#321-sign-in-with-ethereum)
	  - [3.2.1.1. SIWE Sessions](#3211-siwe-sessions)

>       - [3.2.1.2. SIWE Resources](#3212-siwe-resources)

Reviewer: is it just a weird looking diff or is there an indentation issue here?

if any fields are not as expected. The meaning of each of these fields is enumerated below:

The `domain` field MUST correspond to the hostname of the API that the client is requesting to be authorized for, e.g. `example.com`.
The `address` field MUST correspond to the Celo blockchain address that the user is attempting to login/authorize themself as.
The `uri` field MUST correspond to the origin URL of the API to authorize for, with the `/auth/login` path appended, e.g. `https://example.com/auth/login`.
The `nonce` field MUST be a randomly generated, unique nonce chosen by the client, included for security purposes.
The `issued-at` field MUST be the ISO 8601 datetime string of the time at which the client generated the message.
The `expiration-time` field MUST be an ISO 8601 datetime string that specifies when this message will no longer valid, and when a session created with this message
will expire. This field MUST NOT be more than four hours (14400 seconds) later than the `issued-at` field.

Note that in cases where a client is attempting to authorize themselves as the owner of a contract-owned account (rather than an externally-owned account), the `address`

> field MUST correspond to the address of the on-chain contract account, rather than the EOA address. In all cases, however, the client should still sign the message using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
field MUST correspond to the address of the on-chain contract account, rather than the externally-owned account (EOA) address. In all cases, however, the client should still sign the message using
```

the EOA's private key.

#### 3.2.1.4. Session Cookies

Once the client generates a SIWE-compliant plaintext message, it signs it with the user's externally-owned account private key, resulting in an [EIP-191](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-191)
Signed Data Standard format message. After generating the signed message, the client will send it to the server at a `POST /auth/login` endpoint, described below. If the server
accepts the signed message as valid, it will respond with a session cookie linked that identifies the user's authenticated session within the server. The name of the session

> cookie is not specified by this specification, but the server MUST use a consistent name for the session cookie, and SHOULD make a best-effort at choosing a unique name, that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cookie is not mandated by this specification, but the server MUST use a consistent name for the session cookie, and SHOULD make a best-effort at choosing a unique name, that
```

will not conflict with the session cookies served by other FiatConnect-compliant APIs. It is the client's responsibility to manage session cookies between different FiatConnect
APIs.

If a client sends a session cookie when calling the `POST /auth/login` endpoint (either to refresh their current, valid session, or to generate a new session if their current one is
expired), the server MUST ignore the provided cookie. If the authentication request is valid, the server MUST set a new value on the cookie referencing the client's new, valid session,
and return it to the client.

#### 3.2.1.5. `POST /auth/login`

The `POST /auth/login` endpoint is responsible for verifying signed messages sent by clients, creating and authenticating a user's session, and returning session cookies.

> Note that both the Sign-In With Ethereum standard, and FiatConnect, support authorization for externally owned accounts (EOAs) and contract-owned accounts; this endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that both the Sign-In With Ethereum standard, and FiatConnect, support authorization for externally owned accounts (EOAs) and contract-owned accounts. The `POST /auth/login` endpoint
```

MUST honor login requests for both, as described below.

##### 3.2.1.5.1. Parameters

###### 3.2.1.5.1.1. Request Body

The *plaintext* request body for this endpoint MUST correspond to a signed SIWE message (as described above) in the [EIP-191](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-191)
Signed Data Standard format, as required by the SIWE specification.

##### 3.2.1.5.2. Responses

###### 3.2.1.5.2.1. HTTP `200`

On success, the server MUST return an HTTP `200`, update the state of the user's session to be authenticated, and return a session cookie.

###### 3.2.1.5.2.2. HTTP `401`

On failure, the server MUST return an HTTP `400`, with the following response body.

```
{
	error: `ErrorEnum`,
}
```

##### 3.2.1.5.3. Semantics

This endpoint performs validation on a signed SIWE-compliant message. In addition to checking that the signature itself is valid and corresponds to the included
address, it also performs various safety and security checks on the contents of the message. If all checks pass, the server updates the client's session to be authenticated,
and returns a `200`.

###### 3.2.1.5.3.1. Success

> On success, the server MUST respond with a `200` status code. The server MUST only respond successfully after performing the following checks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On success, the server MUST respond with a `200` status code. The server MUST only respond successfully after performing the following checks:
```

* A server MUST verify that the signature of the request body is valid and corresponds to the `address` field included in the signed message. If the signature does not
  correspond to the address field, the server MUST assume that the value given for `address` corresponds to a contract-owned account, and attempt to verify that the
  signature is valid according to the [EIP-1271](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) standard. If neither of these checks pass, the server MUST reject the request.

* A server MUST verify that the `nonce` field does not correspond to a nonce that has already been used to authenticate an ongoing, valid session.

* A server MUST verify that the `domain` and `uri` fields correspond exactly to the values expected for the server's hostname/origin.

* A server MUST verify that the `Version` and `Chain ID` lines in the signed message are exactly `1` and `42220`, respectively.

> * If the `issued-at` field in the signed message is before the server's current timestamp, or if the `issued-at` field is after the `expiration-time` field, the server

Reviewer: > If the `issued-at` field in the signed message is before the server's current timestamp

If the server and client exactly agree on the current time, then wouldn't `issued-at` always be before the server's current timestamp?

Reviewer: I'm confused by this

Reviewer: did you mean _after_ here?

Reviewer: like if the `issued-at` field is *after* the server's current timestamp, the request should fail?

Reviewer: if so, I am newly concerned about clock drift and wonder if I was wrong about generating these messages purely on the client

Author: Yes, I believe I meant _after_ here. Clock synchronization does seem extremely important here, though I think it's out of scope for the auth update. We should probably include some separate method by which clients and servers sync on clock in a separate PR. Probably some endpoint that returns the server's clock... although, the server's clock is typically returned in the `date` header, anyways. Regardless, the exact solution for clock synchronization should be a separate ticket IMO.

  greater than four hours (14400 seconds) ahead of the `issued-at` field, the server MUST fail the request.

If all fields are acceptable, and the message is formatted correctly, the server MUST authenticate the user's session, and return an HTTP `200`.
The server MUST attach the fields from the signed message to the session internally, in order to access data about the user and their session in other endpoints.

Once a server authenticates a session using a particular nonce, the server MUST NOT allow any other sessions to be created using that nonce, until `expiration-time` of the session created
using that nonce has been reached. The implementation of this is up to the server, but will require storing some global state about nonces in order to check if a client is attempting
to sign-in using a nonce that is temporarily forbidden. Careful consideration should be taken to make sure that nonce management works correctly when scaling server resources.

###### 3.2.1.5.3.2. Failure

On failure, the server MUST return an HTTP `401` error, along with an error code that details exactly why the request failed.

###### 3.2.1.5.3.2.1 `InvalidSignature`

> If the signature is invalid or doesn't match the included `address` field, the server MUST return an `InvalidSignature` error.

Reviewer: might be worth explaining that the included `address` field might not "match" the signature for contract-owned accounts

###### 3.2.1.5.3.2.2 `InvalidParameters`

If the request body is missing, malformed, or fails to pass any of the required checks, the server MUST respond with an `InvalidParameters` error.

#### 3.2.1.6. Using Sessions

Once a client has established a session with a server, they can use that session (by sending the session cookie to the server) to access priveleged endpoints
throughout the API. Certain endpoints impose different requirements on the in-use session. There are *two levels* of endpoints, with respect to their authentication

> requirements. These are explained below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requirements. These levels are explained below.
```

##### 3.2.1.6.2. Privileged Endpoints

The second, and largest set of endpoints, are the ones that require a user to be logged in. These endpoints are the ones that deal with reading and writing user-specific data.

* `POST /kyc/:kycSchema`
* `GET /kyc/:kycSchema/status`
* `DELETE /kyc/:kycSchema`
* `POST /accounts/:fiatAccountSchema`
* `GET /accounts`
* `DELETE /account/:fiatAccountId`
* `GET /transfer/:transferId/status`
* `POST /transfer/in`
* `POST /transfer/out`

For these endpoints, a user needs to be logged in with an authenticated session. This session may have the maximum expiration time allowed by the FiatConnect standard (four hours).

If a client attempts to access any of these endpoints without a session, the server MUST return a `401` status code with an `Unauthorized` error.
If a client tries to acces any of these endpoints with an expired session, the server MUST respond with an HTTP `401` status code with a `SessionExpired` error.

### 3.2.2. Client API Key

In addition to the SIWE-based auth used to authenticate users and create sessions, the FiatConnect specification also supports a more traditional authentication standard, used

> *only* to identify specific clients with requests. Recall the webhook-based status monitoring mentioned earlier in this document. In order to support status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 to identify specific clients with requests. Recall the webhook-based status monitoring mentioned earlier in this document. In order to support status
```
to say here sounds like it may be too prescriptive. If another use for it was found that didn't break the spec in some other way, I don't think we should box people in

Author: Sure, I think that makes sense!

the second authenticates the *client*, and is optionally required, depending on whether or not it has been configured by the client
with the provider.

### 3.2.1. Sign-In With Ethereum

FiatConnect-compliant APIs are required to use the *Sign-In With Ethereum* standard, otherwise known as [EIP-4361](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4361)
in order to identify users and confirm ownership of a Celo blockchain address (private/public keypair). At a high level, the Sign-In With Ethereum standard
requires the client to use a user's private key to sign a plaintext message containing a number of standardized fields, and send that signed message to the
server to prove account ownership. FiatConnect APIs MUST use the SIWE standard to create authenticated sessions for the user, and return session cookies to
the client. More detail on exactly how this should be structured is provided below.

#### 3.2.1.1. SIWE Sessions

> At a high level, the client will initiate a login request with a server by requesting a SIWE-compliant message to sign from a `GET /auth/login` endpoint. This

Author: Rather than having the client create the message from scratch, I'm proposing a scheme where the server issues a "challenge" to the client in the form of a message to sign. This is more idiomatic, and is somewhat "baked into" the SIWE spec; the `${domain} wants you to sign in with your Ethereum account: ${address}` template is required in _all_ SIWE messages, implying that the message is meant to be issued by the `domain` itself. This also means the client and server can coordinate their clocks, which is actually pretty handy, especially considering the additional security constraints imposed on the transfer endpoints (described below) where clock coordination is relevant.

Reviewer: sounds like this is outdated now

Reviewer: so I'm pressing "resolve"

the client. More detail on exactly how this should be structured is provided below.

#### 3.2.1.1. SIWE Sessions

At a high level, the client will initiate a login request with a server by requesting a SIWE-compliant message to sign from a `GET /auth/login` endpoint. This
`GET /auth/login` endpoint will take a number of parameters relating to the nature of the login session being requested by the client, and return a plaintext SIWE
message that it expects the client to sign.

Once the client receives the SIWE-compliant message, it will sign it using the user's private key, and send the signed message to the server at a `POST /auth/login` endpoint.
The server will validate the signature, and check that all the included fields in the signed message are valid. If everything checks out, the server will create a session
for the user according to the details in the signed message. Once the server has created the session, it responds to the client with a `200`, and returns session cookies that
the client can use in subsequent requests to priveleged endpoints on behalf of the signed-in address.

#### 3.2.1.2. `GET /auth/login`

> FiatConnect APIs must implement a `GET /auth/login` method that clients can use to request a message to sign. This endpoint also has the important job of generating a nonce

Author: I'm not sure I see how this relates exactly. How does setting a nonce when requesting a session impact the potential issues that idemopotency keys solve?

> FiatConnect APIs must implement a `GET /auth/login` method that clients can use to request a message to sign. This endpoint also has the important job of generating a nonce

Reviewer: never mind 😆

for the signed message, as a security measure to prevent replay attacks where an attacker gains access to a signed message in transit. Additionally, this endpoint allows

> client and server to coordinate their clocks to avoid confusion around session expiration times.

Author: Yeah, agreed. I've updated this to remove any recommendation on clock syncing. If this becomes an issue, we can come up with some scheme for clock syncing outside of any of the existing endpoints.

##### 3.2.1.2.1. Parameters

###### 3.2.1.2.1.1. Query Parameters

> * `sessionDuration`: {`string`} [REQUIRED]

Author: No longer relevant, since this endpoint was removed.

>   - A string number that represents the requested login session duration, in seconds.

Author: No longer relevant, since we've removed the double-round-trip idea.

###### 3.2.1.2.3.2.1 `InvalidAddress`

If the provided `address` query parameter is missing or poorly formed, the server MUST return an `InvalidAddress` error.

###### 3.2.1.2.3.2.2 `InvalidDuration`

If the provided `sessionDuration` query parameter is missing or poorly formed, the server MUST return an `InvalidAddress` error.

###### 3.2.1.2.3.2.2 `DurationTooLong`

If the provided `sessionDuration` query parameter represents a duration that is longer than exactly two weeks (1209600 seconds), the server MUST return a `DurationTooLong` error.

#### 3.2.1.3. `POST /auth/login`

The `POST /auth/login` endpoint is responsible for actually verifying signed messages sent by clients, and authenticating the user's session.

##### 3.2.1.3.1. Parameters

###### 3.2.1.3.1.1. Request Body

The *plaintext* request body for this endpoint MUST correspond to a signed SIWE message (as described above) in the [EIP-191](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-191)
Signed Data Standard format, as required by the SIWE specification.

##### 3.2.1.3.2. Responses

###### 3.2.1.3.2.1. HTTP `200`

> On success, the server MUST return an HTTP `200`, and update the state of the user's session to be authenticated.

Reviewer 2: The server also needs to return the session cookie, right?

Author: Yeah, I'll note that explicitly.

Author: Yep, will add this.

###### 3.2.1.3.2.2. HTTP `401`

On failure, the server MUST return an HTTP `400`, with the following response body.

```
{
	error: `ErrorEnum`,
}
```

##### 3.2.1.3.3. Semantics

This endpoint performs validation on a signed SIWE-compliant message. In addition to checking that the signature itself is valid and corresponds to the included
address, it also performs various safety and security checks on the contents of the message. If all checks pass, the server updates the client's session to be authenticated,
and returns a `200`.

###### 3.2.1.3.3.1. Success

On success, the server MUST respond with a `200` status code. The server MUST only respond successfully after performing a variety of checks.

If the client did not send session cookies, or if the included cookie does not correspond to a valid session with an expected nonce already attached, the server MUST fail the
request. A server MUST verify that the signature is valid and corresponds to the `address` field included in the signed message. A server MUST verify that the `nonce` field corresponds

> exactly to the nonce already set on the user's session. A server MUST verify that the `domain` and `uri` fields correspond exactly to the values expected for the

Author: Yes, but like above, no longer relevant since the new plan only involves one request.

MUST fail the request. If the server's current timestamp is past the `expiration-time` field, the server MUST fail the request. If the `expiration-time` field is
greater than two weeks (1209600 seconds) ahead of the `issued-at` field, the server MUST fail the request. If all fields are acceptable, and the message
is formatted correctly, the server MUST authenticate the user's session, and return an HTTP `200`. The server MUST attach the fields from the signed message to the session internally,
in order to access data about the user and their session in other endpoints.

Once a server authenticates a session using a particular nonce, the server MUST NOT allow any other sessions to be created using that nonce, until `expiration-time` of the session created
using that nonce has been reached. The implementation of this is up to the server, but will require storing some global state about nonces in order to check if a client is attempting
to sign-in using a nonce that is temporarily forbidden. Careful consideration should be taken to make sure that nonce management works correctly when scaling server resources.

> ###### 3.2.1.3.3.2. Failure

Author: Don't think so; all the errors are basically more specific versions of the `Unauthorized` error anyways.

On failure, the server MUST return an HTTP `401` error, along with an error code that details exactly why the request failed.

###### 3.2.1.3.3.2.1 `InvalidSignature`

If the signature is invalid or doesn't match the included `address` field, the server MUST return an `InvalidSignature` error.

###### 3.2.1.3.3.2.2 `InvalidParameters`

If the request body is missing, malformed, or fails to pass any of the required checks, the server MUST respond with an `InvalidParameters` error.

#### 3.2.1.4. Using Sessions

> Once a client has established a session with a server, they can use that session (by sending the session cookie to the server) to access priveleged endpoints

Reviewer 2: What is the exact name of the cookie that the client uses to pass the session?

Author: The exact name is unimportant, but a best-effort should probably be made by providers to ensure that the cookie name will not collide with those given by other providers. Will specify this in the spec.

throughout the API. Certain endpoints impose different requirements on the in-use session. There are *three levels* of endpoints, with respect to their authentication
requirements. These are explained below.

##### 3.2.1.4.1. Non-Privileged Endpoints

The first group of endpoints are those that *do not* require the user to have a logged-in session. These are:

* `GET /quote/in`
* `GET /quote/out`

> Since it may be a painful user experience (or impossible) to have a user log in to a provider just to get a quote, authentication is not required for these endpoints. Of course,

Reviewer: agreed on the inconvenience though

> Since it may be a painful user experience (or impossible) to have a user log in to a provider just to get a quote, authentication is not required for these endpoints. Of course,

Author: not sure what my intention was with this; removed

clients may still access these endpoitns when logged in, but a logged-in session (or any session at all) is not required to access these endpoints.

##### 3.2.1.4.2. Privileged Endpoints

The second, and largest set of endpoints, are the ones that require a user to be logged in. These endpoints are the ones that deal with reading and writing user-specific data, *except*
those that initiate transfers:

> * `POST /kyc/:kycSchema`

Reviewer 2: I have a question on how this auth fits into the recent Persona <> Fiatconnect planning I did. Specifically the situation where a user has not done persona yet. Here is the proposed flow:

> 1. User attempts to cash in/out and the Wallet sees that there is no KYC info for the FC parner
> 2. Wallet sends a POST to IHL saying that `[FcPartner]` needs `[KycSchema]` and IHL creates an entry in firebase for `[FcPartner]` and `[KycSchema]`.
> 3. User goes through Persona flow on their device
> 4. Webhook from Persona calls IHL, IHL updates the firebase entry for Persona with status updates, and once status === `'Approved'` calls POST /kyc/:kycSchema for all `[FcPartner]`'s in firebase that need KYC info from step 2.
> 5. Webhook from FC Patner calls IHL when the kyc status changes, IHL updates the firebase entry for `[FcPartner]`
> 6. Wallet calls IHL GET /kyc, gets the new status change, and the user can proceed with the transaction

How could IHL do step 4 with this auth?

Reviewer: let's take this convo back to slack, getting kind of Valora-specific

* `GET /kyc/:kycSchema/status`
* `DELETE /kyc/:kycSchema`
* `POST /accounts/:fiatAccountSchema`
* `GET /accounts`
* `DELETE /account/:fiatAccountId`
* `GET /transfer/:transferId/status`

For these endpoints, a user only needs to be logged in with an authenticated session. This session may have the maximum expiration time allowed by the FiatConnect
standard (two weeks). It does not matter how close to expiration the user's session is when accessing these endpoints. That means that a client can maintain a longer-lived session
in order to access these endpoints.

If a client attempts to access any of these endpoints without a session, the server MUST return a `401` status code with an `Unauthorized` error.
If a client tries to acces any of these endpoints with an expired session, the server MUST respond with an HTTP `401` status code with a `SessionExpired` error.

> ##### 3.2.1.4.3. Privileged, Time-Restricted Endpoints

Author: Discussed offline; changing this to two categories only (authenticated and unauthenticated)

the second authenticates the *client*, and is optionally required, depending on whether or not it has been configured by the client
with the provider.

### 3.2.1. Sign-In With Ethereum

FiatConnect-compliant APIs are required to use the *Sign-In With Ethereum* standard, otherwise known as [EIP-4361](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-4361)

> in order to identify users and confirm ownership of a Celo blockchain address (private/public keypair). At a high level, the Sign-In With Ethereum standard

Author: Yep, removed this.

languages.

#### 3.2.1.2. SIWE Sessions

At a high level, the client will craft a SIWE-compliant message and sign it with the user's private key. This message will contain various parameters relating
to the origin URL which they're requesting to be authorized against, desired session length, etc. Once the client has crafted and signed the message, the client will send
ithe signed message to a FiatConnect API at a `POST /auth/login` endpoint. The server will validate the signature, and check that all the included fields in the signed message are valid.
If everything checks out, the server will create a session for the user according to the details in the signed message. Once the server has created the session,
it responds to the client with a `200`, and returns session cookies that the client can use in subsequent requests to privileged endpoints on behalf of the signed-in address.

#### 3.2.1.3. SIWE Message Format

Within the FiatConnect specification, all references to SIWE-compliant messages refer to plaintext messages adhering exactly to the following template.

```

> ${domain} wants you to sign in with your Ethereum account:

Reviewer: +1 on dealing with this in the presentation layer and not changing the message that gets signed (to maintain compatibility)

> ${domain} wants you to sign in with your Ethereum account:

Author: ++1 on leaving this as-is and presenting it to the user in an understandable way

${address}

URI: ${uri}
Version: 1
Chain ID: 42220
Nonce: ${nonce}
Issued At: ${issued-at}
Expiration Time: ${expiration-time}
```

Each field in this template is required to be filled in by the client, and has a unique meaning. As described later, servers MUST reject authorization attempts
if any fields are not as expected. The meaning of each of these fields is enumerated below:

> The `domain` field MUST correspond to the hostname of the API that the client is requesting to be authorized for, e.g. `example.com`.

Author: Great callout; thanks for the specificity on this.

> The `address` field MUST correspond to the Celo blockchain address that the user is attempting to login/authorize themself as.

Author: Great callout!

The `uri` field MUST correspond to the origin URL of the API to authorize for, with the `/auth/login` path appended, e.g. `https://example.com/auth/login`.
The `nonce` field MUST be a randomly generated, unique nonce chosen by the client, included for security purposes.
The `issued-at` field MUST be the ISO 8601 datetime string of the time at which the client generated the message.
The `expiration-time` field MUST be an ISO 8601 datetime string that specifies when this message will no longer valid, and when a session created with this message
will expire. This field MUST NOT be more than four hours (14400 seconds) later than the `issued-at` field.

Note that in cases where a client is attempting to authorize themselves as the owner of a contract-owned account (rather than an externally-owned account), the `address`
field MUST correspond to the address of the on-chain contract account, rather than the externally-owned account (EOA) address. In all cases, however, the client should

> still sign the message using the EOA's private key.

Author: I see; so the discrepancy here is that EIP-1271 does not mandate a particular signing method; just that the contract account is able to validate the signature with its `isValidSignature` method. I've updated this to be less prescriptive about the signing method for contract accounts, and that it's an optional feature rather than mandatory.

#### 3.2.1.4. Session Cookies

Once the client generates a SIWE-compliant plaintext message, it signs it with the user's externally-owned account private key, resulting in an [EIP-191](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-191)

> Signed Data Standard format message. After generating the signed message, the client will send it to the server at a `POST /auth/login` endpoint, described below. If the server

Author: Thanks for the clarification here!

accepts the signed message as valid, it will respond with a session cookie linked that identifies the user's authenticated session within the server. The name of the session
cookie is not mandated by this specification, but the server MUST use a consistent name for the session cookie, and SHOULD make a best-effort at choosing a unique name, that
will not conflict with the session cookies served by other FiatConnect-compliant APIs. It is the client's responsibility to manage session cookies between different FiatConnect

> APIs.

Author: great callout, noted!

If a client sends a session cookie when calling the `POST /auth/login` endpoint (either to refresh their current, valid session, or to generate a new session if their current one is
expired), the server MUST ignore the provided cookie. If the authentication request is valid, the server MUST set a new value on the cookie referencing the client's new, valid session,
and return it to the client.

#### 3.2.1.5. `POST /auth/login`

The `POST /auth/login` endpoint is responsible for verifying signed messages sent by clients, creating and authenticating a user's session, and returning session cookies.
Note that both the Sign-In With Ethereum standard, and FiatConnect, support authorization for externally owned accounts (EOAs) and contract-owned accounts; The `POST /auth/login`

> endpoint MUST honor login requests for both, as described below.

Author: (smart contract login support has been changed to `MAY`)

##### 3.2.1.5.1. Parameters

###### 3.2.1.5.1.1. Request Body

> The *plaintext* request body for this endpoint MUST correspond to a signed SIWE message (as described above) in the [EIP-191](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-191)

Author: Hm, I think this should be a JSON with `message` and `signature` fields, as you mention below.

> Signed Data Standard format, as required by the SIWE specification.

Reviewer 3: So neither SIWE nor EIP-191 actually specify how to package the signed message (i.e. I'm really not sure what you are referring to as the "Signed Data Standard format"). We need to specify that here. Two options are

1. Specify that the body is the signed message data and include the signature in an `Authorization` header.
2. Package both into the body as a JSON struct with `{ message, signature }`.

In both cases, we need to specify the encodings (e.g. `base64`) and whatnot.

##### 3.2.1.5.2. Responses

###### 3.2.1.5.2.1. HTTP `200`

On success, the server MUST return an HTTP `200`, update the state of the user's session to be authenticated, and return a session cookie.

###### 3.2.1.5.2.2. HTTP `401`

On failure, the server MUST return an HTTP `400`, with the following response body.

```
{
	error: `ErrorEnum`,
}
```

##### 3.2.1.5.3. Semantics

This endpoint performs validation on a signed SIWE-compliant message. In addition to checking that the signature itself is valid and corresponds to the included
address, it also performs various safety and security checks on the contents of the message. If all checks pass, the server updates the client's session to be authenticated,
and returns a `200`.

###### 3.2.1.5.3.1. Success

On success, the server MUST respond with a `200` status code. The server MUST only respond successfully after performing the following checks:

> * A server MUST verify that the signature of the request body is valid and corresponds to the `address` field included in the signed message. If the signature does not

Reviewer 3: We should make it more clear that the they should start by making sure the whole message is valid according to the ABNF specified in SIWE.

Author: Good callout; specified this!

>   correspond to the address field, the server MUST assume that the value given for `address` corresponds to a contract-owned account, and attempt to verify that the

Reviewer 3: I would argue against including this method of determining whether a given address is an EOA or a smart contract as a MUST. There are multiple ways to figure out whether a given address is a smart contract, and we can recommend a method, but I don't think we need to require this as the method of choice here. This method is somewhat suboptimal compare to having some kind of an indexer that can tell you before you attempt to verify the signature whether the given address is a smart contract.

Author: Yeah, you're definitely right; this isn't something that we should be prescriptive about. Will just say that servers MUST figure out what kind of account the client is attempting to sign is as; *how* they do that is up to them.

>   signature is valid according to the [EIP-1271](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) standard. If neither of these checks pass, the server MUST reject the request.

Reviewer 3: Specifying that EIP-1271 seems to contradict what I read earlier.

Author: Yeah, changed the previous text to align with using the EIP-1271 standard.

* A server MUST verify that the `nonce` field does not correspond to a nonce that has already been used to authenticate an ongoing, valid session.

* A server MUST verify that the `domain` and `uri` fields correspond exactly to the values expected for the server's hostname/origin.

* A server MUST verify that the `Version` and `Chain ID` lines in the signed message are exactly `1` and `42220`, respectively.

* If the `issued-at` field in the signed message is after the server's current timestamp, or if the `issued-at` field is after the `expiration-time` field, the server
  MUST fail the request. If the server's current timestamp is past the `expiration-time` field, the server MUST fail the request. If the `expiration-time` field is
  greater than four hours (14400 seconds) ahead of the `issued-at` field, the server MUST fail the request.

> If all fields are acceptable, and the message is formatted correctly, the server MUST authenticate the user's session, and return an HTTP `200`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If all fields are acceptable, and the message is formatted correctly, the server SHOULD authenticate the user's session, and return an HTTP `200`.
```
Realistically, servers may still chose to reject the session (e.g. due to restrictions on where the request is coming from) and this is not something we can stop them from doing.

Author: Good catch; changed to `SHOULD`.

> The server MUST attach the fields from the signed message to the session internally, in order to access data about the user and their session in other endpoints.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The server SHOULD attach the fields from the signed message to the session internally, in order to access data about the user and their session in other endpoints.
```
Since, if the server found another way to accomplish state persistance, this would not effect the client, I would not make this a MUST. In particular, it's likely providers may package session details into a JWT and put it in the client's cookies, which achieves the same goals.

> Once a server authenticates a session using a particular nonce, the server MUST NOT allow any other sessions to be created using that nonce, until `expiration-time` of the session created

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once a server authenticates a session using a particular nonce, the server MUST NOT allow any other sessions to be created using the same nonce and address, until `expiration-time` of the session created
```
Servers may segment nonces by client without loosing security. Obviously blocking repeated nonce globally trivially achieves this as well, so maybe not worth pointing out. The one reason this could matter is if clients use timestamp based nonces.

using that nonce has been reached. The implementation of this is up to the server, but will require storing some global state about nonces in order to check if a client is attempting
to sign-in using a nonce that is temporarily forbidden. Careful consideration should be taken to make sure that nonce management works correctly when scaling server resources.

###### 3.2.1.5.3.2. Failure

> On failure, the server MUST return an HTTP `401` error, along with an error code that details exactly why the request failed.

Reviewer 3: Returning `401` instead of `400` seems like a good call, but does contradict what was said above. Also, saying that the MUST return a 4XX error code on failure would be broken by server errors which should return a 5XX error.

Author: Hm, not sure where I specify anything but a `401` in this section. And yeah, a `4xx` would be broken by `5xx`s, but that's true of every endpoint; not sure it's worth making an allowance for that explicitly in the spec.

###### 3.2.1.5.3.2.1 `InvalidSignature`

If the signature is invalid or doesn't match the included `address` field, the server MUST return an `InvalidSignature` error. Note that the address used
to sign the message may not actually match the address being authenticated in the case where the client is authenticating as a contract-owned account. In
such cases, `InvalidSignature` MUST NOT be returned when the signature is valid, and the address used to sign the message is considered valid by the contract

> referenced in the `address` field.

Reviewer 3: I found the wording of this paragraph a bit confusing. It seems to say, "You must do X. Expect actually Y may be true. So you should actually do Z." Maybe it could be be refactored to be a bit more straightforward.

Author: Yeah, refactored this section to be more clear about EOA vs. contract-owned account logins.

requirements. These levels are explained below.

##### 3.2.1.6.1. Non-Privileged Endpoints

The first group of endpoints are those that *do not* require the user to have a logged-in session. These are:

* `GET /quote/in`
* `GET /quote/out`
* `POST /auth/login`

Since it may be a painful user experience to have a user log in to a provider just to get a quote, authentication is not required for these endpoints. Of course,
clients may still access these endpoints when logged in, but a logged-in session (or any session at all) is not required to access these endpoints. `POST /auth/login`
does not require a user to already be logged in, as described above.

##### 3.2.1.6.2. Privileged Endpoints

The second, and largest set of endpoints, are the ones that require a user to be logged in. These endpoints are the ones that deal with reading and writing user-specific data.

* `POST /kyc/:kycSchema`
* `GET /kyc/:kycSchema/status`
* `DELETE /kyc/:kycSchema`
* `POST /accounts/:fiatAccountSchema`
* `GET /accounts`
* `DELETE /account/:fiatAccountId`
* `GET /transfer/:transferId/status`
* `POST /transfer/in`
* `POST /transfer/out`

> For these endpoints, a user needs to be logged in with an authenticated session. This session may have the maximum expiration time allowed by the FiatConnect standard (four hours).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For these endpoints, a user needs to be logged in with an authenticated session.
This session MUST have an expiration time of no greater than four hours.
```

Just to make it a bit more clear that this is a requirement (I also foresee service not honoring it, but what can you do 🤷‍♂️)

If a client tries to acces any of these endpoints with an expired session, the server MUST respond with an HTTP `401` status code with a `SessionExpired` error.

### 3.2.2. Client API Key

In addition to the SIWE-based auth used to authenticate users and create sessions, the FiatConnect specification also supports a more traditional authentication standard, used
to identify specific clients with requests. Recall the webhook-based status monitoring mentioned earlier in this document. In order to support status
monitoring via webhooks, individual clients will need to be able to register a URL pointing to an API able to handle webhook updates from the server.
Once a client has registered a webhook URL with the provider, the client needs a way to identify itself to the server. To uniquely identify clients in order
to know where to send webhook-based status updates, a server may allow clients to register an API key. The exact mechanism by which servers allocate API keys
to clients and allow them to register webhook URLs is out of scope of this document.

> Once a client has registered an API key with a provider and associated it with a webhook URL, a client MAY provide it to a server through an `Authorization` header,

Reviewer 3: It's unclear to me how the session cookie and API key interact? If a user provides an API key, but no session cookie, does that authenticate them?

Author: No, they're totally separate. The API token is merely used to identify a request with a particular client (specifically, for the purpose of knowing where to send webhook events). I've clarified this in the doc a bit.

##### 3.2.1.5.1. Parameters

###### 3.2.1.5.1.1. Request Body

The request body must contain the following fields:

* `message`: {`string`} [REQUIRED]
  - The plaintext SIWE message
* `signature`: {`object`} [REQUIRED]
  - The [EIP-191](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-191) signed message if logging in as EOA, or a signature according to the
	[EIP-1271](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) standard, if logging in as a contract-owned account.

The `message` field should be the *plaintext* message, while the signature should be an object containing the typical secp256k1 signature fields: `r`, `s`, and `v`.
`r` and `s` are hex strings (prefixed with `0x`) each 32 bytes in length, and `v` is an integer. This is the "canonical" form of the signature as referenced in
[EIP-2098](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2098), rather than the "compact" form.

##### 3.2.1.5.2. Responses

###### 3.2.1.5.2.1. HTTP `200`

On success, the server MUST return an HTTP `200`, update the state of the user's session to be authenticated, and return a session cookie.

###### 3.2.1.5.2.2. HTTP `401`

On failure, the server MUST return an HTTP `401`, with the following response body.

```
{

> 	error: `ErrorEnum`,

Reviewer 4: Would this just include a single enum, or do we also want to have a more descriptive error? E.g., which parameter is missing in case of `InvalidParameters`

Reviewer 2: oooo the UI would love to know which parameter is at fault ❤️

Author: None of these SIWE parameters are actually chosen by the user; this is all done under the hood -- what would we display to the user if e.g., the nonce was wrong? Although for the client's sake, it might make sense to have more descriptive error types here.

Author: Just added a couple of extra error types... if there's more that would be useful to have, let me know and I can add them in!

sure that nonce management works correctly when scaling server resources.

###### 3.2.1.5.3.2. Failure

On failure, the server MUST return an HTTP `401` error, along with an error code that details exactly why the request failed.

###### 3.2.1.5.3.2.1. `InvalidSignature`

If the signature is invalid or doesn't match the included `address` field, the server MUST return an `InvalidSignature` error. Note that the address used
to sign the message may not actually match the address being authenticated in the case where the client is authenticating as a contract-owned account. In
such cases, `InvalidSignature` MUST NOT be returned when the signature is valid, and the address used to sign the message is considered valid by the contract
referenced in the `address` field.

###### 3.2.1.5.3.2.2. `InvalidParameters`

If the request body is missing, malformed, or fails to pass any of the required checks, the server MUST respond with an `InvalidParameters` error. If another
error type is more descriptive of the actual issue, that error should be used instead.

###### 3.2.1.5.3.2.3. `ContractLoginNotSupported`

> If the server determines that a client is trying to log in as a contrract-owned account but the server does not support contract-owned account logins, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the server determines that a client is trying to log in as a contract-owned account but the server does not support contract-owned account logins, the
```

  - An ISO 3166-1 country code representing the country where the quote should be requested for.
* `region`: {`string`}
  - An optional ISO 3166-2 subdivision code representing a region within the provided country.
* `address`: {`string`} [REQUIRED]

>   - An [EIP-55](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-55) formatted address, representing the Celo address of the user to get the quote for.

Reviewer: for contract-owned accounts should this be the EOA or their contract address? the contract, right?

Author: Yep, clarified!

  - An ISO 3166-1 country code representing the country where the quote should be requested for.
* `region`: {`string`}
  - An optional ISO 3166-2 subdivision code representing a region within the provided country.
* `address`: {`string`} [REQUIRED]

>   - An EIP-55 formatted address, representing the Celo address of the user to get the quote for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - An [EIP-55](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-55) formatted address, representing the Celo address of the user to get the quote for.
```

	`ResourceExists`,
	`ResourceNotFound`,
	`TransferNotAllowed`,
	`KycExpired`,
	`Unauthorized`,
	`SessionExpired`,

> 	`SessionTooOld`,

Author: nothing... good catch -- `SessionTooOld` shouldn't be here!

```
[

> 	`InvalidAddress`,

Author: Yeah; `InvalidAddress` doesn't need to exist -- it's actually not referenced anywhere.

	`InvalidDuration`,

> 	`DurationTooLong`,

Author: Ah, this is the same as above -- `DurationTooLong` isn't referenced anywhere; `ExpirationTooLong` should be used instead.

> 	`DurationTooLong`,

Author: `InvalidDuration` also isn't referenced anywhere... will remove that as well.
